+++
title = "Contributor Minutes on 2022-04-10"
description = ""
date = 2022-04-10
[taxonomies]
tags = ["minutes"]
+++

Contributor Minutes on 2022-04-10
=================================

Attendees
---------
- Mingcong Bai (Bai)
- OriginCode
- RedL0tus
- cth451
- Zixing Liu (Liu)
- CambeR
- Mag Mell
- Mili Zhang
- Yanqi Xu
- Neruthes

Agenda
======

- [OSPP 2022 Preparations (2)](#ospp-2022-preparations-2)

OSPP 2022 Preparations (2)
=======================================

- Bai: Let's talk about the OSPP project preparations.
  - Bai: First, let's take a look at the OSPP 2022 enrollment status.
  - Bai: Looks like we have enrolled, however we can't register any projects. We also don't know how many projects we could submit to the OSPP committee at this time. Liu, do you have any information about this?
  - Liu: Hmm. They DM'd me and said that they will assign open slots to the community after the community enrollment deadline has passed.
  - Bai: That's bad news. Guess we can't discuss anything in this meeting.
- Liu: Hmm. So let's assume we can only register three projects, what projects we could give up?
  - Bai: Looks like I could give up the localization project and the LoongArch porting project. However, we should at least try to get all our projects registered.
  - Liu: They do not want to give any information about this event at this point of time.
  - Bai: They are not being transparent at this point. If they give different number of open slots to different organizations, we should take actions to protest this behavior, since we did not register many projects in the past.
  - Liu: Absolutely. I will try to convey this information to the committee when the time comes.
- Liu: Okay. Do any person in this channel want to add any new project or want to participate in any available projects?
  - CambeR: I kind of want to participate in either the localization project or the LoongArch porting project. Not sure if I can join multiple projects.
  - Liu: Seems like student can only join one project, but they can submit multiple proposals.
  - CambeR: I see.
- Liu: So I guess this is the end of the meeting? Anything to add?
  - Bai: Yep. Thanks to a certain organization, we can do nothing at the moment.

Actionables
===========
N/A
