+++
title = "Contributor Minutes on 2022-08-28"
description = ""
date = 2022-09-11
[taxonomies]
tags = ["minutes"]
+++

Contributor Minutes on 2022-09-11
=================================

Attendees
---------

- Canarypwn (Canary)
- Cyan
- Icenowy Zheng (Icenowy)
- Mag Mell (Saki)
- Mingcong Bai (Bai)
- Zixing Liu (Liu)

Agenda
======
- [AOSCC 2022 Planning](#aoscc-2022-planning)

AOSCC 2022 Planning
===================
- Bai: We plan to only schedule AOSCC 2022 for one day on September 27. Do anyone have different plans?
    - Liu: Probably not. We don't probably have that much to talk anyways.
    - Bai: When to start then?
    - Liu: Previously, we scheduled to start at 10am, China Standard Time. But I am afraid some people may not able to wake up at that time.
    - Bai: Then when should we start?
    - Liu: Hmm... 12pm is probably also too late? Well, let's keep it at 10am.
- Bai: Hmm, there will be two talks before 12pm, then we will reconvene at 2pm.
    - Liu: In which case, we can put some less interesting talks before 12pm.
    - Bai: Right, we usuaully put yearly review at that time, should be fine though.
    - Bai: If Tyson does not come this year, we will focus on the progress reports mostly.
    - Bai:  If Tyson does come though, we can arrange a round-table talk about the open-source landscape topics, and other people can raise questions etc. He won't need to prepare for any formal talk as well.
    - Liu: Sounds fair. Even if he doesn't come, we can still talk about this topic regardless.
    - Bai: About the progress reports, OSPP is still going to be one of the main focus here. [Liu] You and Icenowy probably want to talk to your mentee and do the report together with your mentees.
    - Liu: That would need prior notice, so the schedule must be decided first.
    - Bai: Okay, let's put yearly review at 10am to 10:30am. And then you and Icenowy should go ask your mentees whether or not they want to do the report.
    - Liu: Hmm... That's a Saturday in China Standard Time isn't it, I am not sure the availability of the mentee.
    - Bai: The schedule is flexible. What about you, Icenowy?
    - Icenowy: Well, I guess I would not invite my mentee.
    - Bai: So, you want to give up on that project?
    - Icenowy: It would be a miracle and a half if they did finish the project at this point.
    - Bai: How to present this report?
    - Liu: I think the mentee should also get a chance to talk. It's not specified in OSPP rules, but it sure does in GSoC documentation.
    - Bai: The mentor will summarize the project and then the mentee will expand on that?
    - Liu: Quite right. The mentee should have a sense of participation.
    - Bai: I would, however, critize the OSPP committee for the disastrous situation this year. Anything else that should be mentioned?
    - Liu: DeployKit is finally in somewhat a good state now.
    - Bai: Anything else? I think I am forgetting something here. Ah, Autobuild3 improvements. I think I can present this talk with CambeR. And then `nanny`.
    - Liu: Is `nanny` in the repository now?
    - Bai: Yeah, `vscode` is already using it.
    - Bai: Also, Icenowy and CambeR can give a talk about the projects in PLCT Labs.
- Bai: How to string those talks together then? I am thinking to let the next talk immediately start when the last one ends. I believe a fixed schedule is somewhat pointless, as you probably won't talk non-stop for an hour this year.
    - Liu: Agreed. Most of the talks may last 15 minutes, tops. Except for the discussions though.
    - Bai: We have the dedicated time for that in the afternoon. The round-table talk will happen in the afternoon first, then the discussions.
- Liu: What about the stickers?
    - Bai: Nope. I will mention it in the yearly report, albeit very briefly.
- Bai: Okay, let's quickly recap the current schedule.
    - Bai: Yearly review will start at 10am, and probably will last about 30 minutes. Then 10am to 12pm will be a block for the lightning rounds. Launch break at 12pm to 2pm. After the break, OSPP report.
    - Bai: And starting at 3pm, the critical round-table. After that, discussions, until the end of the day.
    - Bai: When do you want the PLCT report to be, Icenowy?
        - Icenowy: I will leave the decision to you.
    - Bai: Okay. So you are available at the both morning and afternoon time period?
    - Icenowy: Yes.
    - Bai: Right. I will make the schedule soon.

Actionables
===========

TBD