+++
title = "Contributor Minutes on 2022-07-03"
description = ""
date = 2022-07-03
[taxonomies]
tags = ["minutes"]
+++

Contributor Minutes on 2022-07-03
=================================

Attendees
---------
- Mag Mell (Saki)
- Mingcong Bai (Bai)
- Zixing Liu (Liu)
- Icenowy

Agenda
======

- [OSPP Progress Report](#ospp-progress-report)
- [Wallpaper Nomination Planning](#wallpaper-nomination-planning)

OSPP Progress Report
====================
- Bai: Does anyone has any update on their OSPP projects?
  - Liu: I haven't checked with my mentee yet, I will do that as soon as this meeting is over.
  - Icenowy: I have mailed the evalution board to my mentee using FedEx.
  - Bai: Did they gave you any estimates?
  - Icenowy: No. The item was mailed to India and they can't provide any estimates.
  - Bai: Liu, is there any concerns with your mentee so far?
  - Liu: No. So far, everything looks okay. His technical ability is very good, there is no doubt about that.
- Bai: That's nice to know. How about the OSPP project timeline?
  - Liu: I think it's mostly up to the OSPP committe to decide.
  - Bai: What do you mean? I want to know when this event would end.
  - Liu: I think that's going to be September.
  - Bai: When will be the midterm evaluation?
  - Icenowy: There is no midterm evaluation this year.
  - Liu: That's wild. I think they just gave up.
  - Bai: Wow, okay. Then is it possible to drop the project mid-way through the timeline?
  - Liu: That's not included in their documentation, I think we need to consult the Committee when that need comes up.
  - Bai: Hmm. Then all we can do is to wait and see.

Wallpaper Nomination Planning
=============================
- Bai: Let's talk about the wallpaper nomination procedures this year.
- Bai: How should we nominate and vote this year? And when to nominate and vote?
  - Liu: I think we need to set up something like a questionnaire or forms like the previous year.
  - Bai: Okay, so which one is better? GitHub Issues or Google Forms?
  - Liu: I think you forgot GitHub Discussion exists.
  - Bai: Ah, okay. How should the candidates submit their work then?
  - Liu: I think they can submit a post to the designated GitHub discussion thread with the link to their uncompressed images.
  - Bai: How to ensure they upload the uncompressed images?
  - Liu: I mean they can use a image hosting service that do not compress the image.
- Bai: I see. How about the codename nomination?
  - Liu: I suggest just use Google Forms like last year.
  - Bai: Then vote using Telegram?
  - Liu: I have no preference on the voting platform.
- Bai: Next, how to vote for the wallpaper nominations?
  - Liu: Telegram's voting system is a bit awkward when the options are meant to be pictures.
  - Bai: Any better alternatives?
  - Liu: Hmm... GitHub discussion does have a voting feature, but that one also limited to plain text.
  - Bai: Well, let's just stick to the Telegram voting system for now.
  - Liu: Which repository do you want to have the Call for Wallpaper discussion in?
  - Bai: The abbs repository.
- Bai: I will work on the Call for Wallpaper post after this meeting is over.
  - Liu: Okay. Should we start the both nominations at the same time?
  - Bai: No. That would be chaos.
  - Liu: Alright.
- Bai: For AOSCC 2022, the number of current attendees are too small, so we will delay this topic until later.

Actionables
===========
- Bai: Prepare for the codename and wallpapaer nomination and voting procedures.
