---
title: "Contributor Minutes on 2022-05-22"
date: 2022-05-27T15:58:08-07:00
---

Contributor Minutes on 2022-05-22
=================================

Attendees
---------

- Lily-Ayta (Lily)
- Mingcong Bai (Bai)
- Tianhao Chai (Chai)
- CambeR
- Mag Mell (Saki)
- Zixing Liu (Liu)

Agenda
------

- [Autobuild3 Test Ingegration](#autobuild3-test-integration)
- [Distribution Review](#other-distro-review-5)

Autobuild3 Test Integration
---------------------------

- CambeR: Let's take a quick read at the current [Google Docs: RFC draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RHzh80WpREPrxN72-MtpXLKP9OnA_QbBjJP86TRDkQA/).
  Any questions and points for discussion so far? Let's leave the details for
  later revisions.
    - CambeR: My basic thought with this RFC is to offer a Autobuild3 switch
      to enable/disable integrated tests, contained within the
      `autobuild/tests` path.
- Bai: Should the tests be enabled by default? I'm thinking that, to minimise
  developer impact, maybe we should keep tests off by default for now.
    - CambeR: Yes.
- Liu: I think we should allow multiple test manifest files
  in `autobuild/tests`.
    - Bai: Agreed, I have an alternative design (which I should outline later),
      where test manifest follows a `define`-like format, which in turn
      defines a few test template scripts or allows a corresponding custom
      test script.
- CambeR: Should we allow unprevileged tests? Some tests may require a non-root
  environment.
    - Liu: How should we do this? Maybe we could look at other projects,
      such as Google's Bazel.
    - Saki: Or we could just create a normal user for tests in BuildKit?
        - Bai: I think it would be better to just let Autobuild3 handle user
          management - creating a temporary one-time user and destroying said
          user after test sequence. I say this because not everyone would use
          Autobuild3 with BuildKit.
        - Saki: Okay... Or let systemd handle it?
        - Liu: Let's leave the details for later.
- Liu: I want to highlight an issue, however. Autobuild3 has poor handling for
  syntax errors in scripts, where it doesn't return an error code when it
  encounters them. Bash's `trap()` function wouldn't catch them either.
    - CambeR: Speaking of error codes, we might need to create other error codes
      to denote test statuses.
    - Bai: Well, again, this is probably a detail for later. Not to mention that
      this wouldn't be a test-specific issue.
- Liu: It might also be worth considering what these "tests" entails - unit
  tests or integrated test for other functions of a package? And should build
  abort on test error, or just report success/warning/failures all in one go?
    - CambeR: Yes on reporting all results in one go.
    - Liu: Having mentioned Autobuild3's known design issue above, I think it
      might also be worth including a special return code for Autobuild3's
      syntax error detection failures.
- Liu: What is with `acbs-build --with-check`? I think we should at the very
  least notify developers when tests are available but not enabled.
    - Liu: You know what. I think we should enable tests when they are
      available, there would be no point to this otherwise - developers will
      never test the packages if they don't have to - what is the point?
    - CambeR: But Saki said that it would be a waste of time.
        - Liu: Again, if we don't enable this, I don't see anyone would use
          this function.
	- Bai: I second Liu. I also think that it's necessary for a
          reasonable quality standard.
        - Saki: But it simply takes too long...
        - Liu: Again, I stand by my argument.
        - Saki: Perhaps you are right.
    - Liu: In that case, I think we should change that switch to
      `acbs-build --no-check` instead.
    - Lily: Though I think we also need to consider slower devices, or devices
      that simply couldn't complete certain tests.
        - Liu: Well, all Autobuild3 variables are architecture-aware, so you
          could enable or disable tests on demand.
        - Bai: Also that Retro architectures are actually built on modern,
          high-performance hardware, so this shouldn't be too much of a concern.
- Bai: So to recap. (1) We need to make sure that tests are opt-out, not opt-in
  and (2) test opt-out should only be granted on the basis of expected failure,
  *not* time constraint.
    - Liu: Or when packages contain build-time tests that are run by default.
    - (Liu and Bai debates on whether GCC contains default build-time unit
      tests - inconclusive, but irrelevant \[and long\] argument.)
- Liu: How do we calculate the costs for certain test inclusions? Some tests
  might only offer marginal gains in terms of test coverage but would take
  an unreasonable amount of time.
    - Saki: Also, what happens when we have emergency fixes? Especially those
      without version changes.
        - Liu: But regression tests would be necessary nonetheless.
        - Bai: Yeah, if a fix breaks another thing, it kind of defeats the
          purpose, no?
        - Liu: Yeah, remember that recent Microsoft fiasco with their emergency
          hotfix breaking VPNs?
- CambeR: When should the checks be enforced? Would we need to test packages
  twice in the topic procedure?
    - Liu: Tests could be flaky so yes.
    - Bai: Liu, I think she means if we should test packages both during
      topic upload and merges into Stable.
    - Liu: I think it's a simple matter of adhering to the topic guidelines, so
      test twice.
        - Bai: Seconded.
    - Saki: But now I am again doubting if it would be worth it... If we already
      tested pre-merge, why should we test again?
        - Liu: The fact that we are merging into Stable is exactly why we should
          test again then.
        - Bai: And that you wouldn't be able to detect test issues if you don't
          test during the topic prodecures, no?
    - Saki: But what if tests take longer than build time?
        - Bai: It's an irrelevant detail, it's a matter of necessity.
- CambeR: Also, some upstreams provide unit tests, so we could also just use
  those directly.
    - Liu: But some of them have incomplete unit test coverage.
- Bai: Here, let me propose something. Let's push for a gradual test integration
  scheme, where we use an honour system - when tests are included in
  `autobuild/tests`, they must be run and mandates success or documented
  expected failures. At any rate, this would be better than not having tests
  at all.
    - Liu: Yes, and we should allow for certain architectural- and
      package-type-specific exceptions.
- Lily: Should we also push for CI on the Pull Requests level, with a bot to
  handle scheduling and reporting like Rust's [Homu](https://github.com/rust-lang/homu)?
  We could open local instances to test code functions and enforce at the
  community repo level (no test pass no upload).
    - Liu: This would be very difficult to implement.
    - Bai: I also think this would be over-engineering our demands.
- Saki: We should also perhaps allow for tests to be run after package upload.
    - Liu: That just defeats the purpose, doesn't it?
    - CambeR: It might also be worth it to include a .deb metadata field to
      indicate whether a package has been tested.
        - Liu: Well, who is then going to manage and observe this metadata?
          dpkg/apt ignores extra metadata entries.
        - CambeR: Then how should the users know?
        - Liu: I don't think it would be visible anyways.
- Liu: So, to recap. No need to change ACBS/Ciel, Autobuild3 test integration is
  to be implemented on an opt-out basis.

Other Distro Review (5)
===============================
- Bai: The distro to review this week was voted to be Ubuntu MATE.
- *Review starts, detailed discussion omitted*

Note: See [the notes here](@/developer/notes/distro-survey-2022.md#ubuntu-mate) for the review summary.

Actionables
===========

- CambeR: Continue revising RFC.
